*08/03/2022*
Hmm... I mean so lets see here... I can get a good idea of what to do for the thesis in general... I'm fairly confident in my topic at this point, although I'll give
Gary some time to take care of the issue which has come up for him... But I mean getting the basics outlined would be good... and getting the various packages to 
create the bibliographies and everything setup in latex would be good... hmm... so i suppose the first thing to do would be to get latex up and running in terms of
having a proper bibliography package installed and using it correclty...

okay... so i've got the basics of the title page laid out here... that is a good start and things will start coming together i believe... i can work on getting the
bibliography and everything together next... or hmm... more laying out the table of contents and everything from a basic layout standpoint... then get the bibliography
thing working... hmm... so then lets see here... so now we should have a table
of contents... 

so lets see here... perhaps LyX is a better way to approach this... hmm... and
this seems to have a very nice organizational structure which would help me save
a lot of time... but hmm... i mean how to install the missing packages?

*2022/08/09*
Hmm... so lets se ehere... it would be good to get a bit of work done regarding the thesis... I mean
undrestanding the latex structure and alyout would be good as well as defining the various sections...
or understandingt the different sections... i'll have to check out the versions i got... perhaps the
smaller separate sections is easier for maitenance... 

hmm... so i mean something is going on in the rendering here and i'm not sure exactly what... hmm... i mean i could also figure out another way to be able to break these
things up and embed them... so far I'm much more liking the ECSE version... so hmm... i'm not entirely sure how this necessarily works here... how am I able to compile
or render these .pdf's separately? it doesn,t appear to me as that is qhat is necesasrily going on here... hmm... i suppose this is sufficient for now... i mean the
minor organziaiotnal things are pretty minute... how do i fix thsi rendering thing though? the text seems a bit misaligned... well wehre are the rendering options indicated?

hmm... okay... so i figured that one out... now how do I ge rid of these red rectangles in the table of contents? so hmm... i mean that was nice... but rendering these
files independently would be much more useful... 

*09/02/2022*
Hmm... so lets see here... I mean what to do first... well Gary recommended looking up the guy's thesis... so that would be good to do... both the masters and the phd
to see if there are more details in it... but hmm... so then well there is the other paper he mentioned... so i'll collect some resources first and then once i start
going through things to try and re-create it, i should be able to have a decent amount of material to refer to... hmm... so it seems the second author made the slide guitar
part of his masters thesis... it's a minor difference... hmm... but okay... i should have enough material to get started now... oaky... so i mean there are plenty of
interesting things it seems here... very fascinating... i mean hmmm... okay... so i should just get started to try and implement it... it would be better to focus on
one idea then jump around too much and not get anything done... well hmm... i mean i would need to read the article more so first... to understand it before i can 
implement things more fully... but the other one seems like it would be interesting to explore as well... hmm... would it be worth printing these out to make notes...
i'm not sure but lets keep going here... okay... so then he just talks about
the inspiration here for the system based on the previous one... hmm... okay...
there were issues with the original motion capture system... so then we have a
description of the basics of slide guitar here... i mean i'm familiar enough
with that already... so then lets see here... now we have the slide guitar sound 
yes... the most unique characteristic is that you can change the pitch continuously...

hmm... i mean the phsyics of this would be interesting to examine more fully...
so that is true as well... the slide can excite the length of string "behind"
it and that is where your muting hand comes into play... interesting... okay...
so then okay... well i mean this is just be basics of where/how the sound is
produced by a slide... i mean that makes sense... as that is fundamentally what
that was titled there... then we get into the contact sounds... this would presumably
be when the slide strikes the string as well as when it moves up and down the
string... or more likely the wound strings... as that has a fundamentally different
texture than the unwound strings... 

so different types of slides produce different noises in terms of their contact
with the string... or the contact sounds... makes sense... i mean that would be
interesting to model as well... i wonder how that could be incorporated into
things here... interseting... and then interesting... i mean the velocity of the
slide movement also changes how the slide surface interacts with the string's
surface... and that would change the different type of noise generated... hmm...
interesting indeed... hmm... okay... so we have spectromgrams here from a steel-string
guitar... hmm... okay... okay... so lets see here... he just move the slide
from one point to another point... or one fret to another fret... hmm... okay...
and he used an acousitc... hmm... so if i was to recreate this i suppose i could...
although it might be better to make it more controlled... but hmm... okay...
so he didn't attempt to control the vleoicty at all... and that would control
and affect the fret-noise... hmm... so i wonder how that would manifest itself...
well i mean the spectral content would change over time corresponding to how the
string changes... and that can be determined or informed by the paper examining
that part... hmm... so then he used brass and glass slides on wound strings...
the 6th and 5th string... hmm... okay... so then lets see here... i mean hmm... 
i don't see why those recording parameters/conditions would be incorrect... but
then lets see here... so he used brass and glass tubes... hmm... so hmm... i mean
lets see here... so we string was damped on both sides of the tube... i can understand
behind the slide... but why other other part? or why in front? is this purely
to try and isolate the contact sounds? i'm beginning to think that is the case
here... hmm... okay... so then lets see here... 

so evidently the string-slide contact noise is made by the same manner in which
finger-string contact noises are made... hmm.. interesting... so then lets see
here... so that paper goes into more detail... and would be worth checking out
as gary had mentioned... so then lets see here...  so hmm... there is evidentlly
some sort of commonality between the various different sounds here... hmm...
interseting... so this is an attempt to capture the noise characteristics...
okay... fascinating... and the glass slide has a very different  well hmm...
it seems to generate less intesen noise overall... as he said he didn't attempt
to control for the slide velocity and that might more have hmm... and impact on
the path the pitch follows here... hmm... okay... so then lets see here... hmm...
i mean why would that work like that... and welll i would imagine his velocity
would change... as it seems to... starts slow, ramps up and then slows down... and
if velocity is the only part which impacts the noise charactersitics/parameters
then hmm... i mean that would make sense here... interesting... so then hmm...
i mean it also seems to be harmonic... although perhaps that is an artifact of
the string vibrations? i'm not entirely sure but okay... interesting... hmm...
interesting... the noise seems to be less intense on the a string... in terms
of it's amplitude... wellthe individual components... interseting... okay... so 
then lets see here... 

hmm... so he says the overall spectral shape is of a low-pass type... hmm...
where the slide vleocity controls the cut-off frequecny... ahh.... i sppose i can
see that... and it clearly has a harmonic structure... so the slide noise is 
periodic due to the windings around the string... i can see that ... evidently this
has been studeid by penttien in a chinese string isntrument using wound strings...
hmm... okay... hmm... so there are static harmonic resonances... hmm... okay... 
i'm not entirely sure i see those atm... hmm... i think i can see it here now
actually... okay... so then lets see here... what would cause that? this is
due to the longitudinal string vibration... hmm... so i would need to learn what
these different types of string vibration are... longitudinal would presumably
be down and up the string's length... 

hmm... okay... so i could believe that... and i saw it as well in the data...
assuming the data was captured correctly.... so the high-frequncy content
is more pomrnent on the hticker strings as the thinner strings have smaller 
windings... hmm... sothen the string surgface is smoother... hmm... i wonder
what that means... or hmm.... so i mean do they actually change the thickness
of the windings... i'll have to look into that... i mean having a guitar on hand
would be useful to be able to confirm/disconfirm these various things here... so
hmm... that would also be interseting to examine more from a mech eng standpoint...

but okay... so i mean i could dig that... understanding the composition of a string
and how it is constructed would be interesting as well... so then he gets into 
the differences related to the material of the slide used... so lets see here...
so a brass tube procudes loduer nosie with more high-frequnecy content then a
glass tube... i mean we had seen that here... so then the hmm... well the temporal
variation in harmonic resoanance deepdsn on the material as well... as i had seen
there.... so the glass tubes tend to produce more frequency moduaitonl or jitter
than resonances from brass tubes... i definitely observed that... hmm... okay...
so they think this is due to the differences in mass in the different slides...
so the brass tube is clearly heavier... 80g as comapred to the 14 g of the glass
tube... hmm... okay... so i mean then it would ultimately resist motion and
acceleration more... interesting... i can see that now... and that would amke sense...
so the slide with less mass would ultimately let more micromvoements of the 
players hand in... well hmm... i mean i would need to test that out myself...

and then the differences in the surfaces of the different slides would also
likely have an effect... hmm... i mean the frictional differences... interesting...
that would be interesting to examine in more detail there... so hmm... then lets
see here... so the contact noise between a slide tube and a plain or unwound string
is much quieter... i can see that... so it evidently doesn't have a harmonic
structure or anything... and more closely resembles white noise... interesting...
i mean that is quite interesting... and it would make sense in general... i would
imagine this is something which has been noted by players of the instrument...
and there is the contact part... when the slide makes contact with the string...
the click hmm... when it makes inital contact... so this hmm... so has a small
magnitude but is still audible... hmm... okay...

hmm... so i mean lets see here... utlimatey the slide could vibrarte a bit as well
depending on how it is necessarily being held... it woudl hmm... i mean i suppose
ideally you would not want it to vibrate at all... but okay... so then he got the
IR from each of the different slides... hmm... okay... ahh... but this is just
on the contact sound... hmm... okay... hmm... i mean i could go through that part
again afterwards... i suppose i could see how that is useful... or hmm... well
maybe... not so sure atm i suppose... 

*09/06/2022*
So then lets see here... I mean what to do with the thesis here... It would be good to keep parsing the document... or the original paper... 
okay... so hmm... i mean definitely having printed out copies would be nice as that would make things easier to refer to and take notes regarding...
so he argues here that the slide material and it's surface texture has more of 
an affect on the sound then the vibrations of the tube itseltf... and that creates
various different audible differences between the different slides... hmm... i
mean i can see that i suppose... 

so now we get to slide guitar synthesis here... so the actual synthesis of the 
sound... hmm... i mean i liked his sound better than what was produced by the
other one regarding the different string parameters and everything... but hmm...
okay... so lets see here... so we do the synthesis using a time-varying digital
waveguide string... hmm... okay... makes sense... i can get that... the handling
sounds emananting from the sliding contact between the string and slide tube 
are synthesized using a parametric model... hmm... okay... and then inerseted as
exication into the waveguide... hmm... okay... so we will need to explore how 
the different friction noises are modelled here... hmm... okay... so that would
be interesting to explore... so then lets see here... this is the basics of what
is going down and is what i would expect... expect for the parametric part however...
but this is still interesting none the less...

so lets see here... we have a digital waveguide string with time-varying pitch...
so we use a single-delay loop digitial waveguide... hmm... okay... so with one
time delay... hmm... okay... so this model which they have developed before... or
is from another paper is what is being used here... or what forms the basis...
i should find this paper... okay... so that seems to be similar to what jaffee
and smith did before... but hmm... okay... so then lets see here... we have the
basic model here... the classic integer delay, fractional delay to be able to
increase the tuning stability hmm... and then the loop fitler to change how the
decay happens... or what frequencies are present... hmm... okay... that is to 
simulate the vibrational losses in the string... hmm... okay... interesting...
so the integer and the fractional delay elements are time-varying... that is
correct... interesting to recall that here... so hmm... okay... so the fractional
delay filter allows for smoother tuning between pitches... which one would hope
for here given that is one of the key characteristics defining how a slide sounds
and is played... but hmm... okay... interesting... so evidently several different
techniques exist for implementing these filters... hmm... i mean that is something
which would be interesting to explore... lets get that paper! okay... so that
is a lenghty one but seems like it will be interesting... but then lets see here...

hmm... so lets see... so they use a 5th-order langrange interpolator... the 
technical details of which are presumably explained in the paper. hmm... okay...
interseting... so the interpolation accuracy is highest near the midpoint of
the filter... so a delay value of 2.5 for a 6-tap filter... so then hmm...
hmm... i wonder what the impacts are on the frequency response... but hmm...
okay... so then lets see here... so we then operate this filter in the delay
range of 2.0-3.0 samples... ahh... intresering... and as this adds a constant
two-sample delay, then we take off two samples from the integer delay line to 
make things more controlable/parametrizable... hmm... okay... makes sense...
so then for the loop-filter here... we have a one-pole low-pass filter... hmm...
okay... and we parametrize the gain and a value using approximated polynomial
parameters depending on the length and type of string... hmm... that would also
be quite interesting to examine... and there is a corresponding paper regarding
this here... hmm... quite fascinating... hmm... okay... so that paper will be 
interesting to look into in further detail later... 

hmm... okay... so then now we get into the energy compensation here... so hmm...
lets see here... so when changing the length of a DWG string... ahh... during
run-time... then signal energy is variaed... interesting... hmm... okay... well
this just emphasizes the need to properly understand the physics of the string
here... but this is quite fascinating... there seem to be several different
components/facets which i could take here and look at...

so hmm... if the string of a DWG is suddenly shortned to half its original
length then half the signal samples are discarded... hmm... although hmm...
i mean how do we transition to this new length? that would be an interesting
thing to examine... so approximately 50 percent of the signal energy is evidently
lost in that method... which i suppose i could see... and as i would expect...
this results in a very poor sounding string... as the decay seems unnaturally
quick... hmm... okay... so then lets see here... so evidently the true
energetic behavior of an actual physicl string with time-varying length is
controversial... hmm... i mean i suppose i could see that... i would need to
have a better understanding of fundamentally how the energy in a string works
as well as how the energy works when using a slide... i mean hmm... so in the 
paper from before some methods are developed which are used here... or only one
was chosen... the computationallysimpler one... the zero-order energy-preserving
interpolation, which adds a single time-varying scaling coefficient into the SDL...
hmm.m.. okay... so what is the SDL? this is the string delay line or something
I would presume? well this would be extremely efficient it  was just one time-varying
coefficient... 

okay... so then lets see here... the the hard part when dealing with the energy
compensation in time-varying strings is that when the length of the DWG changes
then we would need an estimate for the additional lost or gain of energy...
hmm... how does that work? i mean with my understanding on physics here... hmm...
i mean i would think that the energy would be preserved... which would make a lot
more sense to me... or lost... as i'm not sure how it would be gained... where 
is the input into the system of the new energy? where is the energy source in 
this case?

so hmm... lets see here... so in order to estimate the energy loss or change we
would then need to look at the values in the lost or gained delay line segment...
hmm... okay... interesting... hmm... so okay... there is a zero-order energy
preserving interpolation... hmm... what does that mean? zero-order? there is no
delay element involved? hmm... and energy-preserving presumably means well that
the total amount of energy doesn't change... hmm... so okay... then lets see
here... we have this function here expressing the scaling operation... so hmm...
okay... so we have this p_c  function... which is the square root of 1-the delay
line variation in samples multipled by the signaloutput from the time-varying
delay block... hmm... okay... so we effectively have a gain ctronl on the output
of teh time-varying delay-lin based on the change in the delay line variation 
for on time-step... hmm... interesting indeed... quite fascinating... i am really
enjoying this stuff i must say... so this method is only accruate... ahh... i see
why this is zero-order perhaps... so this method is only accurate when the length
doesn't change too rapidly as compared to the wavelength... hmm... well i mean there
will be multiple frequencies occuring or multiple resonant frequencies... is this
referring to the wave length of each of them? hmm... i will need to take a closer
look regarding the physics of a vibrating string here... hmm... okay... interesring...
i mean more fully understanding this condition and statement is going to be required
i believe...

hmm... so then lets see here... hmm... so we start with this here... we are in
open G tuning here... and then slide up from the second fret (A) to the 14th fret
(A again) and hmm... i mean that's an octave slide... a pretty big leap... not
unheard of... but i'm not sure how common it necessarily is... but okay... then
lets see here... so we take the delta x... hmm... so we take the period difference
between the two frequencies... i mean that would be negative... hmm... okay...
so that's well i'm not exactly sure what is going on here... so hmm... i mean 
lets see... okay... so then we need to convert that into a number of samples i
believe... well hmm... i mean that doesn't seem to be the case here so i'm not
entirely sure this calculation is correct... i can go through it with a more fine
toothed comb later on... but okay... so i got the same delta x here... so then
for a particualr frequency f on a string we have this expression for the
wavewenght... so we take the ratio of the fundamental frequency of the open
string to the freuqnecy and then multiply it by 2L... i will have to take a much
closer look into how this works... as understanding that much more fully would
be necessarily i believe... but hmm... okay... so then lets see here... so hmm... 
okay... and then once we et this we can get a frequency limit... hmm... so states
the upper bound for the zero-order energy-preserving interpolation... hmm...
okay... i mean i'm not sure how this necessarily works or what it is necessarily stating
here... but okay... hmm... so for this delta x... or the change in string position...
not necessarily fret position as we are dealing with a slide guitar so we could
(and often do) move smaller amounts... well then this method works up until 16kHz...
and based on my knowledge of the range of the guitar... that is something which
is very easily achievable... interesting... i will have to go through this in 
much more detail later on... as this seems like it would be quite a fascinating 
thing to get much more into... so hmm... then lets see here... now we get to the
contact sound synthesis... 

so then lets see here... to model the contact sound synthesis... so the sound 
generated by the sliding tube and the string we use a noise pulse train as the
exictation signal... so hmm... presuambly a bunch of chunks of noise... of what
duration and spectral characteristics are they? so this is based on the assumption
that as the tube slides over a single winding... a short expeontially deacying
noise burst is generated... hmm... okay... recorded pulses could be used in
synthesis but the contact-sound mechanism so so quick that the exact pulse shape
is not critical... so long as identical pulses are not used... hmm... interesting...
i mean i suppose i could see that... so then hmm... i mean we have a diagram
illustrating it here... so hmm... lets see here... we have L(n) which is presumably
some sort of a time-varying signal... hmm... i wonder what it represents... 
so then we delay it and add it with the delayed version of itself... so this would
okay... so then hmm... well the addition is then smoothed... and then fed into 
an absolute value function here... and there is an n_w gain... which is presumably
is that noise width or what is that? hmm... not entirely sure myself... so
hmm... i mean that goes to some sort of a wave table or what is that? is that
the noise source for the pulse trains? i'm not entirely sure... but h...okay... 
so out of that blucj we filter thw siganl with two different filters... one of
which is followed by a waveshaper... hmm... oaky... so then the output of each
of the filters has a pair of gains... well one filter and the waveshaper...
and those gains form a balance control to select between the two signals...
intresting... so that is then controlled by a gain which is controlled by the
signal f_c(n)... hmm... oaky... and f_c(n)... well what does that do? well it
hmm... i mean that comes out of the scaled absoulte value block... okay... hmm...
so that signal also parametrizes the filter... interesting... hmm... so then lets
see here... there is also a final gain at the end here... hmm... okay... interesting...

so then the time interval between the noise pulses is controlled by the sliding
velocity... hmm... interesting... i suppose i could see that as the sliding velcotiy
controls the rate at which you enounter the different ridges on the string winding...
hmm... okay... so then a fast slide results in a temporally dense pulse train
so hmm... i mean i can see that... interesting... and then a slow slide makes it so
the pulses appear further apart... so perhaps L(n) is this velocity signal...?
hmm... i'm not entirely sure here... so in a sense... the contact sound synthesizer
is actually a periodic impact sound synthesis model... so hmm... okay... there 
are sounds which regularly occur due to the collision of two objects with each
other... hmm... okay.... interesting... and this is what it more acts as as opposed
too a more pure friction model... hmm... okay... interesting... so then several
different impact and friction sound snytehsis models have been investigated before...
and these are various different referecnes to it here... hmm... okay... so hmm...
lets then see here... 

hmm... okay... so we have the general structure here... ahh... so L(n) is a signal
representing the string length... hmm... makes sense... and he says relative
string length... so preusmably based on the f0... value... hmm... okay... interesting...
i mean it would be quite fasciating to experiment with the different variations
of physical parameters and n is the time index... hmm... okay... so i mean this
has a sampling rate in its own way... interesting... okay... so the contact
nosie depends on the sliding velocity... so then this means we need to take a
time difference of the input signal... ahh... as you need a difference oover time
to calculate a velocity... interesting... makes sense here... so hmm... i mean okay...
interesting... so if the control rate is different than the sound-synthesis 
sampling rate then things are a bit different... or you need to have the smoothing
filter... hmm... okay... not sure i see why but makes sense... so ahh... i mean 
that would be a differentiator in a way... if we take the time derivative of the
string length then we would get the sliding velocity... hmm... okay... interesting...
although hmm... i mean well the total length of the string isn't changing as that
is fundamentally determined by the size of the guitar... however where we are
fretting it is what is changing... hmm... interesting... okay... makes sense...

so the smoothing bock changes the samplingrate of L(n) (the control signal for the
length) to equal the synthesis sampling rate using polynomial interpolation...
hmm... okay... so then the contact noise is independent of the direction the
slide travels (up or down) and hence the use of the absolute value here... hmm...
okay... interesting... so the scaling coefficient is n_w... and this represnts
the number of windings on the string... interesting... so then the signal f_c
is the output of the scaling block... and this can be viewed as the
noise-pulse-firing rate... hmm... okay... interesting indeed here... 

so then lets see here... so the basis for the synthetic contact sound for wound
strings so hmm... so block a is the noise-pulse-train generator... hmm... oaky...
so then the type of string (preusmably wound vs. unwound) determines the decay
time and the duration of the individual pulse... so hmm.... then for enhancing
the harmonic structure of the contact noise on wound strings, the lowest time-varying
haromnic is emphasiszed... hmm... as those parts were harmonic IIRC... by filtering
the nosie pulse train with a second order reosnator where the firiing rate
controls the resonator's center frequency... hmm... okay... i can get that...

so the higher harmonics are pduced by distorting the resonator's output with a
suitable non-linear function... hmm... interesting... so this is the waveshaper...
hmm... okay... so then lets see here... so he uses a scaled hyperbolic tangent
function... so i shoudl look into how that is going to affect things here... ahh
so the impact of the harmonics can be controlled by the gain of the waveshaper...

hmm... so okay... the fitler block d is used to simulate the longitudinal vibrational
modes of the strings... so that is a 4th order IIR... and then that is used to
change the spectral shape of the contact noise... so the nosie characteristics
change a lot depneding on the tube material and string type sothen the filter
will need tochang e depending ont he slide material and string tyoe... and then
there is the g_bal control here.. hmm... that controls the ratio between the
time-varying and statc contact sound compomenets... hmm... so interesting...
part of the sound varies while other parts ofthe sound are static... i wonder
how that works... hmm... so what are those... i mean the initial attack when the
slide over comes the friction and then the actual noise while it is moving?
that would be interesting to experiment with and interesting to see... so then
the total amplitude of the snythetic contact noise is controled by the slide
velocity via the scaling coefficient g_TV... dividing it by 100 was found to work
well...

so then we can also control this overall with the g_user gain value... hmm...
okay... so then for unwound strings we use a white-noise generator instead with
the noise-burst generator... so then blocks b c and d aren't used... so the
filters emphasiing the harmonci aspects as well as the longitudinal modes... 
or the waveshaper... hmm... okay interesting... i wonder how the different models
will sound... this will be very interesting to explore... so for unwound strings
the friction/contact sound is just scaled white-noise... hmm... interesting...
okay... so then lets see here... we have figure 7... this is a bunch of the 
fourth-order contact-sound filter magnitude responses... hmm... so the dotted
lines here... in comparison witht eh contact-sound spectral estimates... hmm...
okay... so those were done hmm... using LPC or a linear-prediction filter of 
order 100... hmm... so how can linear prediction be used here to make these
estimates... that is a good question is is something which would be interesting
to explore... okay...sothen we can translate these into poles and zeros to form
the different actual filter realizations... so then lets see here... we have the
basic slide guitar synthesis model here in figure 8 ahh.... so then we have the 
energy compensation scaler here... and then the contact sound generator added
as well... so it is quite similar to the normal SDL DWG model... hmm... interesting...
makes sense...

hmm... okay... so then what to do here... i mean well it would be good to just
start developing the model in matlab perhaps... or hmm... or collecting some of
the papers on the friction/contact synthesis... that would be good as well i
think...

*09/07/2022*
So hmm... lets see here... I think the next point I would be at here is developing
an implementation of things... it would be good to start a Github to back things
up in case there is some sort of an accident...